are we alone in the universe well
obviously not
there's the producer with this script
but is there life elsewhere in the
universe well that's a question has
plagued many scientific minds and the
minds of most stone students for eons
it's known as the Fermi paradox not to
be confused with the Kirby paradox which
is more about why a puppet frog would be
attracted to a puppet Pig physicist
Enrico Fermi came up with his paradox in
1950 reportedly while eatin lunch
potentially he was having a baked potato
but that hasn't been confirmed yet but
basically he asked where is everybody
Fermi wondered with so many stars
hanging around above us and potentially
with planets orbiting around those stars
why the things living on those planets
haven't been down to say hey new planets
that could support life are being
discovered all the time many by Brian
Cox alone the Kepler space telescope
recently discovered hundreds of new
planets that could potentially support
life and potentially have things living
on them that look a bit like the things
you see on Dokdo so if that's the case
and a universe is practically bursting
with prospective tourists then why are
we not overrun with little green men or
great big green men or robot lobsters or
blobs that communicate telepathically
well there are a few possible
explanations that's right we assume that
any alien race out there must be more
smart more tentacled and more
technically advanced and we are but
actually they might just be as rubbish
or even more rubbish than us this is
sometimes called the algae verse alumna
problem or in a way that algae would
understand the universe could be filled
with tons of life but they're actually
just weird chunks of matter hanging off
rocks failing to have thoughts failing
to build spaceships and failing to
invent weird novelty fish that sing
don't worry be happy it's already 4th
there could be microbe like life on Mars
or on the moons Europa Enceladus or
Titan the Martian alh84001 meteorite
which was found in Antarctica in 1996
had structures that looks like
fossilized bacteria but as every
biologist knows microbes and bacteria
and no fun maybe one day these microbes
will get their act together and evolve
arms and power drills and thoughts and
build something that's gonna get them
zapped to this planet but this theory
also proposes that by the time they do
that all that will be left is a few
smoldering cockroaches and the top of
the Statue of Liberty sticking out of
the beach there is a certain human
arrogance that suggests that if there is
intelligent life out there
it must be desperate to get to earth and
see how intelligent human feeds like
reality TV and chocolate eggs but the
harsh reality is
be just like that episode of first dates
where the lady walks into the bar sees
the man she's datin then turned swiftly
on a hill and Sprint's away
maybe these picky extraterrestrials have
popped down seen what we're offering and
thought no thanks or else due to the
vast size of our universe which is
roughly 92 billion light-years in
diameter over 13.8 two billion years old
give or take a few months and with over
100 billion stars in our galaxy alone
maybe they are out there colonizing but
they haven't come across us yet this
theory is also known as the great filter
proposed by futurist Robin Hanson where
intelligent civilizations no matter how
many beautiful robots and spaceships
they invent they inevitably end up
destroying themselves oh yes
enter any pub during the daytime and sit
next to the man at the bar with the
weird eyebrows and I guarantee you
within 30 seconds he will tell you that
aliens walk amongst us and the royal
family are lizards but anyway many many
people believe that UFOs exist and that
the people in charge
I'm not telling us about their
interactions or alternatively the aliens
have been and gone they came they took
some snapshots of the dinosaurs they
built some pyramids threw together some
stone circles and then they bounced we
were just a brief uninteresting stop on
an intergalactic bus tour through the
Orion Arm of the Milky Way unfortunately
all these theories notions and paradoxes
fall prey to one unavoidable fact that
science is no fun science demands the
definitive unquestionable proof be
presented ideally by someone in a lab
coat before they'll believe anything we
are alone in the universe especially you
[Music]
you